In this course I'm going to demonstrate multiple solar wins applications including network performance
monitor or NPM Kuei slug's server copy cat tools and others that may be of interest to you.
Please give feedback if there's any tools that you'd like to add to the course.
But before we get into the demonstrations it's important that you understand the protocols that these
applications rely on to manage the network.
So you need a knowledge of protocols such as ICMP SMP or simple network management protocol S&P traps
syslog and WMI.
These protocols enable applications such as NPM to access devices ingenius three or in a production
topology and to extract information from those devices.
So it's important that you as a network engineer or network manager have an understanding of these protocols.
If you already know what SMP is or what a slug is.
Feel free to skip ahead.
But in this video I'm going to discuss some of these protocols in addition to those protocols.
You should know what a map is or a management information base and what an ID is or object identifier.
You should also know what a performance counters.
Now they are two main types of network management protocols that you should be aware of when studying
network management protocols and how to manage your network.
Always think about how the protocols work and the advantages and disadvantages of the two main types
of network management protocols the two types.
Querrey based which means that the network management station or in a mess asks a question from a device
and then waits for a response.
And then you have event based protocols where the network management station simply listens for announcements
or events from the network.
So with query based the network management station is sending a query to a Rodda to extract information
from that Rodda where as with event based protocols a router switch would inform the network management
station of an issue or something taking place as an example an interface goes down.
That's an event and a message is sent to the network management station to inform the network management
station of that event taking place.
There are several advantages and disadvantages to why you'd want to use a query based network management
protocol Firstly query based protocols are reliable because it's queery based.
The network management station is queering or asking for information from a network device.
If the enemy doesn't receive a response from the device that indicates a problem.
The fact that the enemies made inquiry and didn't get back a response indicates that there's a problem
on the network so no response equates to a problem.
Query based also called polling based network management protocols can be scheduled and you can set
how frequently that's done.
So you could poll the network on a very frequent basis or polled the network less frequently to reduce
the impact of the queries on the network.
As an example you may not necessarily want to query a network device every five seconds because of the
overhead that you putting on the network.
Now in Arayan network performance monitor or Ryan NPM will of food in this course too as solar winds
NPM the default setting is two minutes for queery based poles for status information and nine minutes
for query based polling for statistics.
Arayan NPM uses boost query and event based protocols.